This sermon is brought to you by Buford Road Baptist Church, the speaker today as Pastor David Kogel.
So I'm speaking on Are You Confident in Your Faith?
Are you confident?
We're going to be reading in Luke chapter 12 and verse number 22 to start off with.
And as we get ready for these scriptures today, I want you to think about that word faith, and then I want you to think about the confidence that you have in
Faith, faith in God.
The Scriptures in Luke chapter 12 mentioned that Jesus talked about some folks that were having problems dealing with things going on in their life.
None of us have that, right?
We have a lot of things happen in our life.
But I'm thankful the Lord knows each and every one of them.
And He's able to minister to those needs.
So in Luke chapter 12, verse number 22,
He said unto his disciples, therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, neither for the body, what ye shall put on.
The life is more than me, and the body is more than raiment.
Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap, and neither have storehouse nor barn, but God feedeth them.
How much more are ye better than the fowls?
And which of you, when taking thought,
can add to his statue one cubit.
If he then being not able to do that thing which is the least, why make he thought for the rest?
Consider the lilies how they grow.
They toil not, they spend not.
And yet I say unto you that Solomon and all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
If then God so clothed the grass which is today,
in the field and tomorrow is cast in the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith?
And seek not ye that ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, neither be of doubtful mind, for all these things do the nations of the world seek after, and your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things, but rather seek ye the kingdom of God,
and all these things shall be added unto you."
If I ask you the question this morning, do you have faith?
Most people would say yes.
I've got faith.
But I'm not talking about faith in yourself.
I'm not talking about faith in someone else.
I'm not even talking about faith in something else.
But I'm talking about faith in God.
Do you have faith in God?
And I wonder how confident you are about that faith.
Because that speaks to us today.
I could say, oh yes, I know the Lord knows my needs and I believe He's there and I trust God.
But do you really have faith and confidence that He can do something that needs to be done in your life?
I think that
We have to get to the point where we're not just say we have faith, but we believe that He can do something.
We're confident.
We're not going to let no one shake us.
We're not going to let those negative people say, well, you know, I've been through that too and you just going to have to deal with it.
Well, nothing happened.
Nothing changed for me.
So I'm sure it won't change for you.
Are we going to listen to that?
Are we going to say, wait a minute, I serve a God can do anything.
And I've got confidence in my faith in Him.
I'm reminded of what one person said.
They said, don't tell me that worry doesn't do any good.
Almost everything I worry about never happens.
They've worried it away.
There's a new word that we hear, maybe not new, but even in the medical news, and that word is catastrophic.
You ever heard it?
Oh, it's catastrophic, I'm telling you.
And usually that word defines when a person fixiates on the worst possible outcome and treats it like it's already happened, or it's going to happen.
And it hasn't happened yet, but yet it's catastrophic.
We need to back up and say, well, wait a minute, I don't care what you say it is, I know what God can do.
Now I don't know what the outcome may be.
It may end up catastrophic.
Who knows?
But God won't leave me through it.
He'll be there.
He'll bring me through the other side.
There was a guy that was in bad trouble.
He had a lot of things going on in his life and he went to the doctor and the doctor gave him that wonderful news.
You're in terrible shape.
He said, now you've got to do something about this or else.
something bad is going to happen.
He says, first go home and tell your wife to cook more nutritious meals.
Stop working like a dog.
And also inform your wife to make a budget and stick to it.
And then have her keep the kids off your back so you can relax more.
And unless you do some of these changes, you're going to be gone in a month.
You're going to die.
Well, man, he looked at the doctor and said, good gracious.
Well, I like what you said.
And I want my wife to do those things.
But you know what?
I don't think she's going to take me serious.
So if you would, would you call my wife?
Because it'll sound more official coming from you as you do that she do those things.
So she said, I'll do it.
So when the fellow got home, opened the door, the wife rushed into him.
She said, I talked to the doctor.
He said, great.
She said, poor man, you only have 30 days to live.
My goodness, I didn't do no good at all, did I?
I think we have another simple word that we use for catastrophic and trouble.
And that little word is worry, worry.
It's so easy to get caught up in worrying.
And so today I want to talk to you about having a confident faith in God, because a confident faith will actually kill worry.
So I'm going to get them to put that first statement up there on the board.
A confident faith, I'm trusting the media department this morning, a confident faith quiets our minds.
as the Lord whispers to our souls, fear not.
Amen?
What a difference in saying, I know whom I have believed.
I am persuaded that He is able to keep me and change things that are going on in my life.
And I'm trusting in Him.
I don't care what you say.
Because when we start having fear in our life, that's something that will take a hold and a grip.
We worry, we fear what's going to happen next, what's going to take place next, and that's why Jesus began to address it.
That's why Jesus and Luke 12 began to talk about worry and anxiety, the people that He's talking to here.
The Romans had conquered Israel at that particular time.
They were faced with heavy taxes.
They were faced with poverty.
That's why He spoke about the food and the rain.
They were faced with things that they didn't have no idea what was going to be the outcome.
And so Jesus said, listen, you need to understand some things that are happening in this world and understand what I can do about these things.
The people of Israel had real reasons to worry.
And I know today you may be sitting here worried about something.
And you have real reasons to worry about that.
It could be a vast number of things.
But I believe Jesus, just like He spoke to these people, He's speaking to us today and what we can do.
Look at verse number 22 again of that Luke chapter 12.
He said, therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life what ye shall eat, neither for the body,
what you shall put on it.
The life, listen, is more than me.
The body is more than rain.
We need to understand there's a lot of more things spiritually important than what we're worrying about on this earth.
Consider the ravens.
I don't know why he picked the ravens.
I could think of some prettier birds he could have picked.
But consider the ravens.
They neither sown or reaped, which either have storehouse nor barn.
God feedeth them.
How much more are you better than the fowls?
I love birds.
I got four birdhouses and they're about to eat me out of house and home.
Don't ever let someone tell you, oh, you ain't got no appetite.
You eat like a little bird.
That's not a compliment.
Believe me, I've watched them.
I fill them up and boy, they're gone by the next day almost.
But listen, he's talking about here that God takes care of those things.
And he says, if ye then be not able to do that thing which is the least, why take ye thought for the rest?
I can't do anything about the least thing.
Why am I going to worry about these big things and other things all around me?
So he's talking to them, but he's teaching us the nature of worry.
the sentence number two that I had him put up there.
He's telling us that worrying about the future is not going to change our present reality.
You know what?
Think about it.
We're spending so much time wondering what we're going to do tomorrow, next week, what's going to happen next year.
We can't do anything about that.
We can only do something about what's going on today.
And today you're in the Lord's house.
and He wants to speak to you.
He wants to minister to you.
He wants to meet your need today.
Jesus invites us to think about what the God's role is in providing for our needs.
He wants us to realize when He talked about the ravens, He talked about the food, He talked about the raiment, that all those things God took care of and how small and minute they are, but look at us.
We're made in the image of the Lord.
Don't you think He wants to take care of us today?
Don't you think He wants to meet our needs today?
And all of our worries and all of our problems and all of our things that we're involved in, we don't have time to talk about the story that was just before this, but you know the story.
A man was rich.
He was so rich and so blessed.
He had so much.
He didn't have anywhere to put it.
So he said, I'll build bigger barns.
bigger storehouses so that I'll be able to have so much more to take care of me all the way down the road.
You know what the Lord said?
You won't even live another day.
And guess what?
All that work, all that storing, all that putting away, He won't even be able to enjoy it.
If we spend our time, and I believe in being wise and making investments and doing things that we should do,
But I can't worry about what's going to be way down the road.
I know God, if I'm still here, He will provide and He will meet the need.
It's almost like idolatry.
He was like saying, hey, this is what I'm idolizing here, my riches.
Believe me, idolatry can take on many forms.
It's not just praying to a God made out of wood or stone.
But look at the third statement up here.
An idol is anything we believe will fulfill us.
Look at that, more than God.
Wow.
Anything that will fulfill us more than God.
You see, when we start to think something that I could have or do will fulfill me, guess what?
Our faith goes the opposite direction.
We're putting our faith in that.
We're trusting in that.
If you're trusting in your bank account, it could be gone tomorrow.
Somebody has scammed you out of that right now.
And it's happened over and over again.
Our brother was just talking about that yesterday.
We were discussing that.
But the thing is, we don't need to idolize anything.
We need to keep God first, amen, in our life.
And I'll caught you today, a popular idol is controlled.
Did you know that people want to be in control of everything in that future?
And like I said, it's not wrong to have a good life.
It's not wrong to look ahead and say, hey, I need to not make these mistakes now so that I can provide for my family.
But we need to realize the number four statement is Jesus wants us to rely upon him.
and His control over our life.
We'll get it up in a minute.
Jesus wants us to rely upon Him and His control in our life.
Sometimes, as difficulties come in our life and we start to worry, we'll just worry away the thought where Jesus can do something and think, I've got to come up with a solution.
I've got to fix it.
I've got to do something to turn things around.
What happened to let the Lord do that, amen?
Don't leave him out of the situation.
He wants to control us today.
He wants to know I'm here for you.
And when the byproduct of wanting to be in control is worry, that's what we'll do.
We'll worry about everything that's going on.
Believe me, there's a lot of things to worry about if we let our minds do that.
And as a result of worrying, guess what?
It strains the relationship between husband and wife, between husband and family.
It causes a strain on everything.
Because we've not let God control it, but we've tried to get it under control.
He wrote the 23rd Psalm, the Psalmist said, He said, the Lord is my shepherd.
What?
I shall not want.
I shall not.
I don't need to realize, think about, these are my wants, Lord.
I need it.
I want this.
I want to guess what he'll supply you needs.
Not your wants.
The 23rd Psalm portrays God as the shepherd.
Jesus came to rescue us from sin.
To rescue us from bad decisions.
Believe me, as a human, we're going to make them.
But he's come to relieve us of that if we'll let him.
He's the one that will provide for his people.
Number five is this, if we have a confident faith, then we know that he can be strong and we can be courageous because the Lord is with us.
That's the difference in faith and a confidence in your faith.
I want you to look at Joshua chapter 1.
We'll look at verse number 5.
You got to think about what Joshua faced.
When Joshua was chosen by God, and it was by God, Moses was going to be off the scene.
I mean, Moses had been a great man.
Moses had been a great leader.
Moses had done a lot of wonderful things.
And all of a sudden,
We get to the promised land and Moses can't go in.
He can't lead us.
So God spoke to Joshua.
And this is what he said, There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life.
As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee.
And look at this, I will not fail thee nor forsake thee.
Man, if we'd lived by those words, we'd have confidence in our faith in God.
Verse number six, be strong enough of good courage, for unto this people shall thou divide and inheritance the land which I swear unto their fathers to give them.
Only be thou strong and very courageous.
Thou mayest observe to do according to all the law which Moses, my servant, commanded thee.
Now look, turn not from the right to the right hand or to the left.
Thou mayest prosper whether so ever thy ghost.
You know the problem with us today is we're doing too much turning to the right and to the left.
Well, Lord, this has been good.
But look at this over here.
And have I tried this over here?
we're turning the other way.
We need to keep our eyes on the Lord straight ahead.
This book of the law shall not depart out of our mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then shall thou have good success.
We stick with the Word of God, it will stick with us, and we'll do what we need to do.
Have I not commanded thee, be strong and of a good courage?
Be not afraid, neither be thou the smaith, for the Lord thy God is with thee, whether, so ever thy goers.
He had to say that twice to get the point across.
And we may need to realize we need to get the point across to us.
We need to realize He is with us.
Don't you know, can you imagine the anxiety that Phil Joshua's heart?
Here he is with all these people.
Moses has died, and now I've got to take over?
Kind of like I felt like this more.
Didn't I tell you the Lord spoke to me out there?
I could have said, oh, Lord, what am I going to do?
But you know what I told my wife?
I said, it'll be all right.
The Lord will be with me.
The Lord will help me.
And He has.
and he will.
Joshua, in order to be strong and courageous, it wasn't about the strength that he had physically.
It's what the Lord was going to do for him spiritually.
And God was telling Joshua that we need to look unto him.
Will you put that verse number 7 back up there again?
He said, only be thou strong and very courageous that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my servant commanded thee, and turn not from it to the right or to the left, that thou mayest prosper whether so ever thou goest.
He didn't say, be strong and courageous, and then do all that you could do on your own.
But he said, observe the law.
Many times the only answer we're going to get is when we go to the Word of God.
You're going through something the best answer I know is the Word of God.
Like I said, we can go to people and get good counsel sometimes, but boy, they can lead you wrong sometimes too.
Well-meaning.
But then they'll tell you how something failed in their life.
How they're not been able to get through this, well, maybe they didn't trust in the Lord with all their heart.
I don't know.
But God works with us in different ways, through different means.
But always God's still the same God.
And we can trust in Him.
And it's true for us.
Number six statement, we can worry unnecessarily, and I think this is a very important one, because we forget God's faithfulness.
The next time you're going through something, why don't you stop and say,
You know what?
I remember back in 19 so and so, I was going through something similar and God brought me through that.
I was going through that last year and God brought me through that.
Why not say, hey, you're serving the same God.
Remember His faithfulness and that He can do it again, again and again and again.
I think that He's inviting us to be strong
spiritually, be courageous spiritually, because He is with us wherever we go.
You know, I read something the other day a while back that made me think about this, and it was about not worrying.
It basically said this, we waste so much time and energy when we worry about the little things we're involved in today.
Can you imagine how much time and energy you've put into worrying?
What if we turn that time and energy into prayer?
We turned it into looking to God.
But we'll worry ourselves completely out of energy.
And we're pulling our hair out and we're reaching for the pill bottle.
And we're thinking, what can I do?
It's not what I can do.
It's what God can do.
If we trust in Him.
The article went on to say that a hundred years from now, if the Lord tarries, most of us won't be here.
In fact, a hundred years from now, most people won't even remember who we were.
And as you think about that, you can see why there's really no need to worry about what's going to happen today.
It's in God's hands.
When we worry about telling
Others, what we're going through, having such a rough time, why not spend that time telling it to the Lord?
We worry about today, and we've forgotten completely what He did in the past.
And a lot of people suffer physically, and we worry about that.
A lot of us are facing physical things in our lives.
None of us want to suffer.
We tend to worry about the things that will keep us from suffering.
But it's good for us to know that God works for our good, the Bible says.
And guess what?
Even in the midst of suffering.
That's how sometimes God works the greatest.
Because what you're going through
we look to Him instead of looking to something else.
And that's not only going to help you, but those around you seeing what you're going to, it's going to help them too.
Isn't it great to talk to another Christian that's going through something and say, praise the Lord, I'm not giving up on God.
Praise the Lord, I still believe He's going to answer.
And that kind of confidence is what God will smile upon and God will do.
I don't have time to go back to the
story of Joseph, you know the story.
But the thing about Joseph, Joseph was sold into slavery by his jealous brothers, placed in prison based upon a lie from Potiphar's wife.
And in all of that, when you think Joseph was saying, oh my goodness, I might as well give up.
It's going from bad to worse.
But when we find out that God was working in whatever way he needed to work to get Joseph to the place he needed to be, do you remember the words that he said?
He said, it was worked out for evil, but God meant it for good.
Many times we think we're going through something.
We think, well, you're at God.
He's still right there.
It didn't surprise him.
He knew it.
and he's working it out with a good.
One of the best skills a person can have is to understand their story of their life is within God's story.
Amen.
God's got a storyline for your life.
I don't know from back there to where we're there.
I don't know any of that that's going to happen in here.
But God knows.
And he's working in that.
The psychologists use a concept called prospective psychology.
It's a concept that proposes that people create their future through their imagination on how thinking about the future is going to shape up in the present and in the future.
People have already thought up things that are going to happen to them.
Believe it or not, they've already thinking, well, I know this is going to happen.
I know it's going to take place.
How do you know that?
Only God knows that.
So that doesn't go very far for believers.
But I think we need to imagine there can be a different outcome that we never even thought about.
Trusting in God will always land us safely in His arms.
When we imagine the worst case scenarios in our life, that's when we get so anxious.
That's when the worry and meter goes all the way to the other end.
Because we've imagined the worst case that's going to take place.
I like to imagine the best case that could take place.
Because I know God can work it out.
Number seven.
But when we trust God,
and that He will walk with us through whatever comes our way.
That's when we are exercising confident faith.
So what about you this morning?
All of us have dreams of our life and what they're going to be the outcome.
All of us can imagine things where we'll be at a certain age, what will happen.
We can all think about those things.
Are you afraid of things that might bring suffering in the future?
Do you worry about your future all the time?
God says He will be with us and He will use us for His purpose.
I think we need to realize I can't do anything about the future.
I don't even know the future, but I know one who does.
Now let's quickly go back to Luke chapter 12, and I want you to see verse 27.
Jesus is comparing how we should live in comparing to the unbelieving world.
Consider the lilies how they grow.
They toil not.
They spend not.
And yet I say unto you that Solomon and all of his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Verse 28.
If then God so clothed the grass which is today in the field, and tomorrow is cast in the oven, how much more will he clothe you?
O ye of little faith.
There's a difference in great faith and little faith.
A lot of folks have a measure of faith, but it's about this big.
But I like folks I talk to who are positive and saying, my faith is as big as it can be, because I know God can do anything.
First number 29.
And seek not ye what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, neither be ye in doubtful mind.
You see that doubtful mind?
The devil will play on that.
Verse 30, for all these things do the nations of the world seek after, and your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things.
Do you know the Lord knows you?
He knows you.
He knows you better than your wife or husband know you.
He knows you better than anyone on this earth knows you.
And you know what else?
He knows what you need.
He knows what you have need of.
So the unbelieving world will strive for all these things.
Materialism today is a driving force to the unbeliever.
But in comparison to that, the followers of Jesus know that God will provide.
I serve a Father who can.
I heard that song the other day.
Oh man, it was good.
I had a shouting spell.
I serve a father who can, not maybe, not might, not if he's around, but who can?
A loving father.
And he gave that example of the wildflowers.
Look at verse 31.
But rather,
Seek ye the kingdom of God and all these things shall be added unto you.
Did you know if he didn't put that verse in there, we'd be left hanging?
We can think about what we would be seeking, but then he says, you know what?
I'm going to give you something to seek.
I'm going to fill that void.
Instead of all these things, how about doing this?
Seek ye the kingdom of God and guess what?
The plus thing is all the other things we need will be added under you.
Verse 32.
Fear not, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.
33.
Maybe.
Sell that you have and give alms.
Provide yourselves bags which wax not old.
A treasure in the heavens that faileth not, where no thief approaches or no moth corrupteth."
You see what he's saying here?
It's not about gathering, gathering, gathering, but it's about giving.
Giving to others.
Laying up treasures in my home above,
Trusting fully, trusting in my Savior's love.
That's where the treasures need to be.
Jesus provides an alternative for the future we don't have to worry.
His kingdom isn't an earthly kingdom.
Jesus told us to follow us to seek God's kingdom first.
Instead of fixing all of our tension on becoming wealthy, self-sufficient, Jesus wants us to trust Him.
What is it this morning that causes you to worry the most?
I think Jesus is inviting us today to trust God with our worries.
I agree, there's many, many things we can worry about.
There's much anxiety we can have in our life.
But simply trusting God, it may seem like something that's irresponsible right now.
Oh, I've got to work it out.
I've got to figure it out.
You don't know my financial need.
No, I don't, but God does.
Someone once stated that the most important thing is not the situation that causes us to worry, but how we respond to the situation.
I should have put that one in there.
Listen, Jesus invites us
to stop the tempting to control our own life.
You might as well turn the wheel over to him.
Carry underwood, sung a song and say, Jesus, take the wheel.
You know what?
I don't want to ask him to take it.
I want him to keep him out the wheel.
But he does need to take the wheel many times.
Philippians 4, 6, and 7, be careful for nothing.
But in some things, everything.
by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving that your requests be made known unto God.
And guess what happens?
The peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Jesus Christ.
Anxiety and worry is the opposite of the peace of God.
I need the peace of God, amen?
I need Him to just calm.
I'm faced with the situation and I just need Him to walk in and just calm the still, the waters.
Trusting in Him and He will give us that peace and He will keep our hearts as our musicians come.
Let me ask you this.
Do you see it now?
Do you see how important
The confidence in your faith should be.
We will find peace when we give our worries to God.
Give them to God.
And I'm not talking about, Lord, here's my need, okay?
You got five seconds and then you pick it back up.
There's a lot of people who will come and pray, I hope.
and give their needs to the Lord.
But I hope they'll leave them right here.
They'll worry.
It's no good taking them back out to the door.
You're still going to face the same thing out there, but why don't you leave them and watch God do something?
Confident faith.
Our maturity in Christ is directly correlated to our trust in Him.
Folks, a lot of us have been saved for many years.
We ought to be at a point now where we're trusting God.
We're really trusting God.
And believe me, the day we live in now, we need to trust Him even more.
Every day.
What worries do you need to turn over to God today?
Maybe you just need to come lay Him on the altar this morning.
Maybe you just need to come and spend some time in prayer.
When's the last time you took time to talk to God from your heart?
The last statement, and I'm closing, and then have the confident faith that God will handle it from here on out.
That's confidence.
To say you might handle it, I hope you do something, that's not confidence.
I guarantee you, when you sat down on that bench this morning, you had confidence it would hold you up.
You didn't think twice about it.
You had confidence that it would hold you up.
Why not have great confidence in God?
And He will bear you up.
Carry you through what you're going through and meet your need.
Take it to the Lord and leave it there.
You listen to Pastor David Kogel.
For more information, visit our website at bufordroadbaptistchurch.com